# 452_Cooking_Project
## How It Functions
Once the user runs the program we the declare and initialize the semaphores of all cooking items, pantry, and the fridges. Upon completion of the initialization of the semaphores we then prompt the user to enter the desired number of bakers they want the program to execute with. Once the number of bakers has been entered we then create that many threads and then the logic for the baking begins.

Once the threads begin the function that gets executed when they get created it starts by beginning a loop through a struct of all the recipe. This struct holds each recipe so that it has a name and then two arrays of booleans that indicate which ingredients it needs to get from both the pantry and the fridge. It then will print out which recipe it is start and will grab all of the ingredients from the pantry and then all of the ingredients required from the fridge. To grab ingredients from each of these spots we utilize helper functions to help readibility. In the helper functions it will wait to get into the desired semaphore and then call one other function which takes in a variety of parameter to replicate the time it takes for a chef to do a task such as "grabbing an ingredient from the pantry" or "baking a recipe". This is accomplished by taking in a string, bakerID, currentRecipe, and the amount of time it will sleep. 

Once all of the ingredients for the current recipe have been grabbed from the pantry and the fridge the baker will then wait to acquire a bowl, spoon, and a mixer. Once these are free we will access them and then simulate mixing using the doTask helper function. Once the sleep in teh function is done we then release the cooking tools, and wait for an over to be free and simulate the time it takes with the doTask again. Once baking it completes we release the over and then print that it has finished the recipe; however, there is a chance to be ramsied after completeing a recipe. If this occurs then we make the baker restart the previous recipe over again. If this does not occur then we print that the baker has fnished the current recipe and moves to the next one.

The program will continue until each baker has completed every recipe. Once every baker is done we release the threads, destroy all of the semaphores, and print the bakers have all finished.
